Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming
to you from the QI offices in Covert Garden. My name is Dan Schreiber and I am sitting
here with James Harkin, Anna Chazinski and Andrew Hunter Murray and once again we have gathered
around the microphones of our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in no particular
order here we go. Starting with you Chazinski. My fact this week is that one of the costume
designers on Star Wars also made a mousse suit for scientists to help them sneak up on mousse
or mousse's. Or mousse such. Or mousse. Is mousse such the actual plural?
Yeah, because it's a Native American word and that's how this particular tribe pluralises
it. So what's the advantage of sneaking up on a mousse?
Well if you want to hang out with them, which these scientists did so they were studying
mousse in the Yellowstone area and I think there was specifically at this time looking at
how they were responding to predators. So wolves, numbers had declined in Yellowstone and
mousse had got used to living without them and then I think they'd come back and the scientist
wanted to see if mousse had forgotten how to escape wolves and so then you needed to put
wolf poo and we where mousse lived to check how they responded to the threat. And so this
researcher called Joel Berger asked a woman who worked on the set of Star Wars to make
him a mousse suit so we could go and deposit mousse poo and we around mousse.
Yeah, because they did used to before the mousse suit came along, did attempt to sort of throw
balls of poo and we out at the mousse in order to attract them towards it but they couldn't
throw far enough so they ended up just littering the landscape.
I think they still sometimes use balls, they use snowballs so they get snowballs and they'll
put, sometimes they even put human we on because they want to see how they'll deal with
humans so they'll wee on a snowball and then throw it towards the mousse.
Yeah, that's right and they would slingshot them as well.
And Joel Berger wrote about this, he's written a book called The Better To Eat You With and
he describes the moment where he first, he had his like there's a eureka moment where
he's in the place observing the mousse and he says to his colleague, wait I've had a brilliant
idea, I'm going to wee on the snowball but then he says he's run out of wee because he
recently went to the loo so he just instead of explaining that properly.
I would say you've run out of wee again.
But his wee stockpile was depleted.
So he just made a snowball with his hands and then turned to his colleague and said quick
press on this so I can throw it at the deer.
I think his colleague is his wife is it not?
This was a male colleague, not his wife, maybe he's got more than one colleague.
Yeah, probably not after this experiment, probably goes through colleagues quite quickly.
I've been to Yellowstone and seen the mousse and you can drive right up to them and they just
sit there.
Oh yeah.
So I don't know why he needs to sneak up on them.
Yeah, that's a really good point.
Are they actually yellow stones or are they urine coverage snowballs?
It was just called Stone National Park before he got that.
This is the thing.
So when they do it in the experiments with the snowballs they also use human feces and
they have to use toilet paper I think because they say well we're going to do this in a
safe by a charitable way rather than just pooing into a snowball.
Yeah, that was interesting.
I think I would take the poo and then put the snowball around it.
That's how you do that.
Who went to the snowball?
Everyone's got different methods James and we'll see who's more effective.
I don't think you'd be very good at this Andy.
I'm lethal in a snowball fight.
You have to wait for the other team to contract dysentery now.
Meanwhile you'll be impelted.
It's a long technique James but come the next snowball match in two days they're going
to lose.
So the idea with this mousse suit is that they wanted to sneak up on the mousse in order to
get close enough by tricking the mousse into thinking they were fellow mousse.
So this is who he did do it with his wife who's written up in all the articles as miscutting
him.
So miscutting him and Dr. Burger got inside the mousse suit.
She was the back.
He was the front and they walked up to the mousse and I don't think the mousse took to them
too well from what I read.
He said it worked quite well in the anti managed five successful deposits but maybe they didn't
like it at first.
Did they make it realistic as in did they push the real wolf droppings that they were testing
the mousse with out of the back end of their costume mousse?
No because they don't want the mousse to think that wolves look like mousse.
All wolves come disguised as mousse.
Yeah to wolf in mousse clothing.
So the mousse have a saying is just a human in mousse clothing to mean and who's shitting
wolf shit.
This is just a way to really confuse a lot of mousse isn't it?
Yeah.
But the mousse wouldn't be able to make the connection between the poo they'd seen coming
out and think smell it and think oh that's what that's.
Of course they would.
Now that's what animals do all the time.
Animals are always smelling poo's and being able to recognise other animals.
But they I don't think that a mousse is clever enough I'm sorry if this is slundering the
mousse community to see a scientist dressed as a mousse pushing a wolf poo out of a fake
mousse costume and then go over and sniff it and think that's a dangerous animal.
But do you not see that they might be confused?
I can see they might be confused.
No one's debating that.
That was fair.
But this is so you ask if this was realistic and I guess she was quite a good costume designer
castles is quite big but it was made of styrofoam and cloth and a lot of them seemed to
made of styrofoam.
So scientists quite often want to sneak up on animals for various reasons and styrofoam
seems to be the material of choice.
So someone this year in Montana dressed up as a grizzly bear in Glacier National Park
in Montana to try and scare mountain goats and again styrofoam costume.
Right.
And is that to train the goats to be afraid of bears?
Yes.
Wow.
That's good.
It's because do you know why they've stopped being afraid of predators generally?
Sorry.
What animals we talk about here?
This is mountain goats.
Is it because there aren't enough predators around to be afraid of?
We're back on urine and feces.
It's due to human urine.
So there was a piece of the New York Times last week about how in this National Park all
the mountain goats are flocking towards where humans go because they we along all the tracking
tracks and the we's full of salt and goats love salt.
So human urine creates salt licks.
And so now they're just stopping nervous about predators because they spend so much time
around humans.
So how do they scare them?
They just run up to them and so they rip them apart with their bear costume hands.
That's not scaring.
That is scary.
You wouldn't say terrible news.
Someone recently got scared by a bear and then you read the small print in terms of they
got torn to pieces by it.
But it's poorer on coragelezotra.
All the other goats would be very scared.
That's true.
Yeah.
If you invited all the goats to an event.
So there's going to be a massive urine lump for you to alter lick and then a bear turns
up and rips the goat to pieces.
You stop licking urine lumps and also sorry is poor on coragelezotra real phrase that people
use.
I was quite scared by that phrase.
Yeah me too.
I thought you just messed up what you were saying but you carried on.
I was going to address it after the podcast.
You're right mate.
It's a French phrase.
It's obviously a French phrase.
It's an English podcast.
Yeah.
I forgot that.
Sorry.
I was thinking of my other podcast.
You're actually a Frenchman in an undecast you know.
We lost and sorry.
Do you want to tell you about poor on coragelezotra?
Oh yeah.
Sorry.
Yeah.
It's a phrase.
So let's say.
I mean we know what it means.
Oh yeah.
We know what it means.
But for the people I hope you don't.
You explain that anyway because you explain what would happen with the bear killing one goat
in there.
Yeah.
No.
But I just think Dan's being a bit cocky there.
I mean we definitely know what it means when he didn't know what language it was a second
again.
So we lost an iconic man in a suit this week.
The sad passing of a man called Haruo Nakajima who was for the first 12 Godzilla movies.
Godzilla.
Oh.
Spent the first...
The wall.
Spent a large chunk of his career inside the same Godzilla suit.
So they use the same actor.
He's like Andy Circus for the Lord of the Rings trilogy, you know.
He's just used as the CGI guy.
He was the same guy in every suit.
My face then when you said Andy Circus in Lord of the Rings was the same as your face where
Andy said the French phrase.
Andy Circus was a golem in Lord of the Rings.
What he wasn't in a suit was he because I think I've seen clips of that.
And he's like a CGI.
He's the CGI.
Yes.
Right.
And he also is the chief ape in the Planet of the Apes films.
Yes.
And what else did he do?
Tintin.
He's Captain Haddock.
And he's something else in King Kong.
King Kong is King Kong.
He was a Boss King Kong.
Yeah.
He didn't play Godzilla in the recent...
No, I don't think so.
But I would go and see a circus show, which was Andy Circus, as all the animals that Andy
Circus has played over the course of his career, and they're all Andy Circus in different
costumes.
Right.
What about...
He was in a little Dorit as one of the bad guys.
Absolutely.
Would you include that?
Yeah, 100%.
Okay.
So this guy was famous in Japan for being Godzilla, and he was in it for 12 movies.
He's just passed away, age 88.
And in order for him to properly understand how Godzilla might move, he spent a lot of time
at the zoo watching the elephants and bears to see how they walked and how they...
So he claimed that he did method acting on how Godzilla would exist.
He took it really seriously.
Wow.
Yeah, so we lost him this week.
A very iconic man in a suit on Star Wars as well, sort of in costume news of Star Wars.
For a very long time, they lost Obi-Wan Kenobi's robe.
The one that Alex Guinness wears in the movies.
And so it was a shame because it's such an iconic thing that they obviously didn't realize
at the time how iconic it would become over the years.
But it was found in 2005, and it was in the shop warehouse of this company called Angels
that does costume lending for movies and for Halloween costumes and so on.
So Angels.
Angels, in fact, there used to be one or so might be one, just around the corner from us.
And yeah, they found it in there, and it spent the sort of 30 years that it's been missing,
being rented out during a Halloween New Year or for people dressing as monks.
So it would be a fancy dress costume.
It made it into a few movies, unknowingly, like the mummy.
It's in the mummy.
No.
So this is in 2005, they found it again, and yeah, it was someone working.
There was like, this feels like this is not your regular month outfit.
Look, how did they know it was hosted?
Have his name tag in the back.
So, yeah, I couldn't find that detail.
What I do know is that the creator of the costumes, the original Star Wars costume designer,
different to the one you're talking about, Anna.
He verified that it was that, he said, yeah, so there must have been something on it to identify it.
Great.
The Angels is amazing, though.
I didn't know this place exists.
It basically supplies costumes for all the best films.
So, three of the five nominees this year for Best Costume, all the costumes came from this place Angels.
It's been supplying Hollywood film costumes since 1940, since the 1940s.
So I think it's first Oscar was in 1948 for Hamlet, and it's most recent as the Grand Budapest Hotel.
And it's just this one place in London that everyone goes to get costumes.
And it's supplied my costume a few years going 2012 when I went as a Mayan.
Did it?
Yeah.
That wasn't in the article I read, actually.
No.
It will be now.
They'll do an update.
That's got to go in.
Costumes.
Yeah.
Did you see in the news this week that in Game of Thrones, John Snow's cape is made out of an Ikea rug.
No.
That's so funny.
To present the Channel 4 news.
Oh, no.
Here we go.
It's a liberating ignorance, Fianna.
I've never seen it, but do they all have capes with the quintessentially Ikea type patterns on them?
Yeah.
That's the ladder that's going up the wall.
It's just a lot of billy butt cases.
No, because there's one bit missing, and that's a key scene in the TV series.
And the other big Game of Thrones news is that there was a big battle this week, not too
much for Spiler, and it featured half of all the stunt performers in the UK.
Wow.
And most of them were set on fire, and they beat the world record for most people set on fire
at one time.
That's amazing.
Presumably, the officially recorded most people on fire.
Well, Guinness doesn't recognise a record, but they, people in the industry, kind of know
what the record was.
They think it was, there were 13 burning actors in "Saving Private Ryan", and in Braveheart
there were 18 people who were partially burned, so they were kind of the record.
They've gone up to 20 people set on fire at the same time, or 73 people set on fire over
the course of a show.
Bloody hell.
Are they all okay?
They are, but it's quite weird, because they put this gel on you, and they set fire to
you, and the gel kind of keeps the heat away from you.
But you can't breathe while it's happening, otherwise you breathe in the fire.
So you have to hold your breath for like 30 seconds.
And it's like doing an underwater scene apart from it's much more dangerous, because if
you breathe in, you're just going to breathe in fire.
This is insane.
Surely we have CGI that can replicate fire that doesn't involve people having to inhale
flame.
I think the old ways are the best.
Yeah.
It's exactly the opposite of an underwater scene, James.
They're just sort of picking up on that.
Yeah.
You're right.
But yeah, and the, apparently one big problem is after it's finished, after they've put
you out, you kind of lie on the floor, and you have to lie there for a few minutes,
because if you stand up, you might get re-ignited by accident, and that's one of the
most dangerous things, because there's a lot of fire around, and this sounds like a ridiculous
programme.
They don't have any of that on the channel for news.
Well, one good thing is that IKEA stuff is often flame retarded, so that might be a good,
you know, use for that.
That's good.
I watch one.
So John Snow could have put everyone out with his cape on my one.
Okay, it is time for fact number two, and that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that Switzerland has 18 living ex-presidents.
Okay, I think that's quite a lot.
It's cute.
Yeah.
Because how many ex-prime ministers do we got?
Four or five?
Yeah.
Four.
We've got major, Blair, Brown, Cameron.
That's it.
Yeah.
Four.
I want to wrap in that, it was Italy with prime ministers, looks like they've got ten who
are still living.
Wow, really?
Yeah.
But Italy goes through governments like I go through Pants, what's every couple of years?
But with a huge amount of corruption along the way.
But Switzerland, it is a bit of a cheat, because their presidency is very unusual, and
they only have like a one year president each time, and it rotates with everyone that
who's in the cabinet.
So all you have to do is get elected into the cabinet, and then wait your turn to everyone
else has become president, and then you'll automatically become president.
You're so cool.
And also, there's no maximum number of times that you can be president, so you can just
sit there, and it's like the record is six times.
And there are quite a few people who are currently in the cabinet who are just waiting
for another girl.
Yeah.
What are they doing, other stuff as well?
No.
They're not sitting there.
I was just sitting there in the mountains.
But you don't get any extra power at all as president, do you?
So they've just got this rotating council of seven, who are all exactly on a par.
And then you just get to be cool president for a year.
It's like a children's game.
It's a bit like, I don't know if this is like this, but it sounds a bit like, do they
have like a council in Star Wars, which is a bit like that, like a council of jedis?
Oh, the council of jedis, yes, yeah, yeah, there's a thing like that, yeah, yeah, that's
in the prequel.
It's in Phantom Menace, so it's a Samuel L. James, and that's the one, if you're going
to watch one, that's the one, Samuel L. Jackson, and Yoda, there's a new, I think it's a new species
of bat that has been named after Yoda.
Yes, sir.
Yeah.
And there was a headline about it in the Times a few days ago, and it said named after Yoda,
new bat has been.
That was the headline.
Oh, wow.
That's amazing.
And so the president is what you might call primus into parades, which obviously I don't
need to explain what that is to Dan.
But it is, it's the first among equals, so everyone's equal, but they're kind of, they take
the ceremonial, you know, it's, it's like Dan hosting the podcast.
Yeah.
It's a bit, it's a bit of power.
It's not quite that.
I would say Dan's the fourth among equals.
And they can go on state visits, but technically they don't call them state visits because
of this equality between all of the cabinet.
And so if one of them came to Britain on a state visit, we would call it that, but they
wouldn't call it that.
They just call it a foreign visit.
I think it would be funny if all seven of them had to come and sit on the same chair whenever
they had to do a state visit.
That would be amazing.
And I would watch that.
And they have to answer in one voice when they're answering questions on the press, like
in that improv game.
Yeah.
At the same time.
Or the other improv game where you say one word at a time.
Yeah.
I could do that one.
So do you think that's how they decide policy is they play that one word at a time
game?
Well, let's try it for British policy.
We should make yeties illegal.
There we go.
We've got a policy already.
Damn it.
Sorry.
He screwed yourself up.
Yeah.
Oh man.
That's what they'd never been seen.
That is incredible.
So you said, yeah, two people have held the post six times.
One of them, the record is being a cabinet minister for 31 years.
Yeah.
Wow.
Third of a year is just sitting on a cabinet.
They're not just doing that.
They're making policy.
They're working very hard.
Absolutely.
No one's disputing the might of the Swiss state.
Yeah.
That's important that we say that.
But they, yeah, they maintain their other job, right?
Like the president in 2014, their job was also being foreign minister.
They didn't stop being foreign minister.
That took up most of their time.
That's their main job as it were.
Presidency was a sort of sideline.
So I've been researching ex-presidents in general a bit.
Okay.
So did you know that Joe Biden can never drive a car again?
No.
He's not that impressive.
But he has been ex-vice president.
Right.
So ex-presidents and vice-presidents are not allowed to drive after they leave the White House.
But are you using ex-presidents as a catch all term to refer to presidents and vice-presidents?
Yeah.
Because I'm sure that is what the vice-presidents do.
I've been the vice-presidents of the United States of America.
It's very useful on the lecture circuit.
And this isn't a law either, but it is a secret service rule, as it were.
As in the secret service says, well, we really think you shouldn't drive.
And most people basically stick to it because someone else is driving you around, I guess.
But George Bush, W, drives around his family farm with a truck and that's about as far as
he's allowed to drive.
Are they looked after for the rest of their life by the secret service?
You get a secret service protection for the rest of your life.
Right.
Is that the same with Prime Ministers, do you think?
I think if you started a war in Iraq, you have a lot of security forever.
I think if you're Gordon Brown, you just know.
A policeman might ring out once a month to check your alright.
Because David Cameron was at wilderness when we were there, wasn't he?
Yeah.
And he had some goons around.
How many he did, yeah.
He did.
But I missed him.
Ah.
I know.
We normally catch off at those things.
Guys, is there something everyone knows about Switzerland, that what is the capital?
Oh.
Bern.
I think there are five.
Whoa.
Yeah.
I think it's the pub quiz.
I think it's like the cabinet.
There are loads of capitals, and none of them is more important.
Or they each become the capital on a regular basis.
Nice.
You're all wrong.
It doesn't have a capital.
I didn't.
That's why I didn't answer, because there is none.
Okay.
So obviously, everyone thinks that Bern is the capital of Switzerland, but I just had no
idea that it has no official capital, so its constitution doesn't mention it.
Is the defacto capital, isn't it?
It's a defacto capital, but there was a committee was set up by this seven-person
council in 2002 to actually start work on making Bern the proper capital.
And then it was suspended in 2004 and not resumed since, because it was too difficult
a job.
All I'm saying is, if you're in a pub quiz and they ask you
that question, go for my answer, not Anna's, because one, you'll get the point.
And two, it'll take you a long time to write about this council in 2002.
Yeah, and they don't give you much room sometimes, aren't they?
Sorry, is it Bern?
Am I saying Bern in this pub quiz?
I think Bern in the pub quiz, yeah.
But, if I answered that, will really Geneva is the financial capital and Lausanne is the
industrial capital and Bern is the political capital and there are a couple of others, would
I get the point?
No.
You can only put one answer down.
But otherwise you could put every word that's ever been invented as the answer to every
question.
Oh, yeah.
They never give you that long.
Just because this is about Switzerland's government, it is unbelievable, their system
of referenda. And so, in the past 20 years, they've had more than 180 referendums or referenda.
The runner-up is Ireland, which has had 22 and Latvia then, which has had 8.
They just have them constantly about everything, yes, bizarre.
And one of the ones they had, for instance, was the one in 1959, as to whether women should
be allowed to vote and they voted that down.
So that was a referendum that only men could take part in, because women still couldn't
vote in 1959.
This men in Switzerland voted against women getting the vote and they didn't get into 1971.
So all you need is 100,000 signatures from registered voters in order to have the referendum.
So that's why it can happen so easily, it's just people need to sign up.
There was a party that tried to have a referendum called the APPP and they were trying to ban
the use of PowerPoint in Switzerland.
This, the APP claimed that 2.1 billion Swiss francs was being wasted on PowerPoint presentations
from the sort of like taking people away from their jobs to see PowerPoint presentations
and so on.
They said 85% of workforce people saw no point in a PowerPoint presentation.
So did they have a petition about that then?
Yeah, I think they did.
And I think they failed to get the 100,000 people to sign in.
What I was thinking is that their PowerPoint presentation, for short, would be the APPPPPP.
That is great.
That's like someone trying to do my initials and then really stammering, suddenly.
So when you become a member of the party, you have to buy the party manifesto, which is
set out in this book called the PowerPoint fallacy.
And it's authored by the guy who found the party, who's called Mathias Poem.
And he was asked in an interview.
So is this just a promotional gimmick for your book?
And he said, yes, it is a tool to promote my book.
And then he said there's like further reasons for it doing it as well.
But like, yeah, basically it was set up to sell his book.
Cool.
Fair enough.
At least he's honest.
But that existed.
That was a party.
Wow.
Well, a party.
One guy.
That's true.
Yeah, I don't know how many people sign up.
I love my parties.
I like that.
OK, it is time to move on to fact number three.
And that is my fact.
My fact this week is that a New Zealand scientist is planning to hunt for the Loch Ness monster
inside of a cup.
Quick, quick search.
Or big cup.
Yes, true.
Actually, it's quite small.
Small, messy.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, no, it's a big, it's a large cup.
It's a couple of liters.
It's a few cups.
Basically, the idea of this is that a New Zealand scientist, called Professor Neil Gammel,
has been promoting this thing called E DNA or Edna.
And the idea is that we can now, taking samples of water from various lakes and oceans and
so on, can analyze the DNA that's found inside each cup and they're able to diagnose what
animals are in there, what animals aren't in there.
If there's meant to be in there, it's a sort of new system of being able to count up fish
and any ocean life of a specific area with accuracy from within just a bit of water.
The idea behind going to look for Nessie is he's effectively doing this as a publicity
stunt to promote the idea of E DNA.
This basically got picked up by the papers.
This was never his intention.
When he announced the idea that he wanted to do more stuff with E DNA, Cryptozoologist
got in contact with him and said, could you do this for the Loch Ness?
And he said, you probably could, but I'm not planning to do that.
The paper is kind of reported that he said, yes, that's what I'm planning on doing.
And as a result, when he'd go to schools and everywhere else to talk about it, children
would ask him specifically about Loch Ness.
And using Loch Ness, he started explaining the procedures.
And people just way more interested generally.
So he's now up for the idea of doing the Loch Ness thing because people are actually listening.
It's insane.
You have to do it via the Loch Ness monster.
Do you know what he's trying next is organising a Swiss referendum?
So the other thing about it is that there's now a massive library of fish DNA because obviously
it's no good finding a bit of DNA and then thinking, well, what did this come from when you
don't know the DNA of, let's say, a cod.
So there was a massive drive organised by a scientist who is called Jesse Alsubel.
They did 500 expeditions and they got basically thousands and thousands of specimens of animals
from all over the oceans.
So now they have this huge library of tens of thousands of fish DNA samples and now they
can actually match it up to something.
So that was the big finger printing drive.
That's good.
Yeah, because otherwise you've just got a bit of DNA that's completely used for this.
Yeah, this is nasty.
Good bit nasty, yeah, sure.
It could be anything.
Yeah.
You really need some kind of reference system.
It's a hard thing to research because I kept getting articles about, like, world's
oldest women dies.
You just keep getting articles about people called Edna, don't you?
Yeah, yeah.
So one of the ways it's going to be important is because we need to be able to keep
count of our fish and know where they are because fish stocks are being depleted.
And we have a bunch of ways of counting fish.
I was reading an article I think it was in the Atlantic about how a lot of scientists and
fishermen still just do the traditional way of counting fish, which is basically that
your ownership, you've, what is this?
It's just a traditional way.
It must be just one, two, three fish, two fish, three fish, four, yeah.
It is this, but they spend months and months out there.
So in Massachusetts, these guys go out in a boat and they have a conveyor belt set up on
their boat and they get this huge net and then they plop all these fish onto the conveyor
belt.
And then someone's job is to pick a fish off a conveyor belt, shout what species it is, throw
it into the right species pile.
Someone else's job is to shove it up against a measuring board and automatically a magnet
measure challenge.
It's like a mugshot of it.
Yeah, it is.
It's exactly like that, yeah.
But then do we eat these fish?
They throw them back in, well, they weigh them, so the question is, how do they know that
it's not the same, you know, cards the next time?
They don't even explain.
Hey, Jerry, this one looks a bit like that one from three weeks ago.
Throwing them back alive still, so they're putting them on the conveyor belt, still alive.
They're shoving them up against a measuring board, still alive.
They plop them on a set of weighing skills, still alive and then they're sent back down
and no one believes them.
You're right, that's the UFO of the fish world, isn't it?
So the reason that it's really hard to break out of this system, which is actually not as
efficient as, for instance, using a drone to count all the fish, or maybe using a DNA monitoring
system, is that it's kind of like the thing Andy mentioned, it's a referencing problem.
So because we started counting fish this way in the 1950s or '60s, the only way we know
how many fish there are compared to before is by comparing it to the previous house.
Oh, right.
So we just have to keep on doing this system.
If we suddenly do a new system, we'll find way more fish, and we won't know how to compare
it to how many there were before.
So we're stuck with it.
We're stuck with guys.
What we need to do is come up with a new system and then do them both together for a few
years.
It's a really good idea, James, and then compare the difference.
You should get on that committee.
I have a cryptozoology fact, because we're on Nessie.
So this is a story from the BBC, this was North Carolina last week, and it was about Bigfoot
then.
Oh, I know.
There was a sighting of Bigfoot.
Yeah.
Hugely exciting.
Group of Hunters called Bigfoot 9-1-1.
They said they'd seen Bigfoot only for a local shaman to get in touch saying it was me.
Yeah.
I was walking around in a suit made of animal skins, and he's called Gawain.
But the man who wrote the group said on Facebook, "I want to address the recent revelation
from the gentleman that stated that I saw him in the woods."
This is quite a fascinating story, but there are a few problems with it.
Number one, the creature that I saw was 8-foot tall with stringy matted hair.
The gentleman in the picture does not appear tall, too.
The creature moved with speed unmatched by any human.
So
But the thing is that Gawain McGregor was there looking for Bigfoot himself.
Yes.
He wanders around addressing an animal skins, reciting what he says is a Sasquatch prayer.
And he says that he himself has met Bigfoot before, but has now been mistaken for Bigfoot.
Are you guys ready?
Are they just seeing each other constantly and thinking they're sighting Bigfoot?
They did find Nessie this year.
Did they?
They found A Nessie.
It was a 9-meter model of the Loch Ness Monster built in 1969 for a Sherlock Holmes movie
and sank to the bottom of Loch Ness, and they found it with an underwater robot.
They took a photo of it.
That's amazing.
That's really cool.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Did they get to anyone get excited initially or were they all sensible people who knew what
was happening?
Next, he's dead.
Do you know you must know about Robert Rines, the Nessie Hunter, who I'd never heard
of, but is really cool, so he's a proper scientist.
He dies not that long ago.
You're already looking skeptical, Andy, but he made massive contributions to science
in America, but was also obsessed with the Loch Ness Monster and convinced it existed.
So he had 800 patents.
He developed this way to improve radar and sonar images, and now it's used in Patriot
Missiles, which they use in the military.
He found the Titanic wreck, and he found the wreck of the Bismarck.
He was one of the people on that team who uncovered the Titanic.
He made massive leaps in ultrasound imaging.
He contributed to eye surgery, but he's just remembered for the fact that he was obsessed
with the Loch Ness Monster.
And so, for instance, he hired a perfumer once to concoct the kind of scent that would attract
a creature like the Loch Ness Monster, and he trained dolphins to find it.
So he got cameras on dolphins' heads and trained them to be able to find Nessie.
But yeah, it's so weird.
He's this really cool, legit guy.
He once played a violin duet with Albert Einstein.
He was a Harvard scientist, but who also kept on trying to find the Loch Ness Monster?
It's weird, isn't it?
That's weird.
It's because my hero.
He painted a form of chopsticks with hinges on them as well.
W. My Hero.
I was reading that in, this is about in 2012, and I couldn't find an update on this.
But in America and Louisiana, Christian schools that are sort of, you know, sort of believe
that dinosaurs existed at the same time as humans, creationists, sort of schools.
They started teaching that the Loch Ness Monster is real, a solid scientific fact to help
back up all of their creationist stuff.
So there's an ACE textbook.
This is Biology 1099, Accelerated Christian Education Inc, who published it, and it reads,
"Our dinosaurs are alive today.
Scientists are becoming more convinced of their existence.
Have you heard of the Loch Ness Monster in Scotland?"
Nessie, for sure, has been recorded on sonar from a small submarine described by eye witnesses
and photographed by others.
Nessie appears to be a pleasy of sore.
So that's actually taught as fact within these schools.
It's quite cool.
I didn't know that Nessie is not quite cool.
It's not cool.
Exactly.
Yeah, the leesia sores, I don't think the dinosaurs really, what?
So that is a massive mistake they've made there.
Yeah.
They're not dinosaurs?
No, but in the same way that teradactyls were not dinosaurs.
Yeah, but don't put sore on the end of your name and not be a dino.
Yeah, but dino is not on the front of the name, yeah, but sore is on the end of everything.
Also, Tyrannosaur is a dinosaur.
Yeah.
I mean, if you're not sure what Twitter has been telling you about, it's been weeks.
Okay, it is time for our final fact of the show.
That is Andy.
My fact is that your liver grows and shrinks by 40% every 24 hours.
I am in love with the liver.
Yeah, that's great fact.
Wow.
What a thing.
Okay, so this was based on a New York Times article I read, it was just a sort of feature
on the, it wasn't really a news article as such, now breaking news, you've got a liver,
but it is so cool.
So the liver grows and shrinks every day.
It's got its own internal clock, so it knows what time to do it.
And it's, it grows and shrinks in accordance with day and night, more or less.
So they tested mice and mice, their liver expands after dark and then it shrinks back
when daylight is approaching, but that's because mice are nocturnal.
And obviously humans are dying and also our liver grows in the morning and then it shrinks
at night.
Do you think it depends like when you go to bed?
So I got to bed extremely like and dangos bed relatively early.
Yeah.
So do you think his liver expands earlier than mine?
Maybe.
So your liver might be different sizes now, just because of your own body clocks.
That's cool.
Does, would my liver get jet lag when I go to Australia?
I think all of you gets jet lag.
Does that mean that there are British people walking around Australia with tiny liver?
Getting pickled on the beer much quicker.
I think that's what we're saying, yeah.
And Australians here have massive liver, so no, that's not what we're saying.
They have the same problem, don't they?
They would have the same problem.
Yeah.
So it's the size of a chihuahua.
At which stage?
Chihuahua's don't grow and shrink 40% during the day.
Full size.
Small full size chihuahua.
Hang on.
When the liver's at full size.
Chihuahua's are like, they're big, right?
Well, they're not as big as a great date.
I said a small chihuahua there.
I know, but just picture it very quickly.
A chihuahua inside me right now.
Yeah.
I'm going to really tie a chihuahua.
I think you mean a chihuahua without the tail?
Or legs.
They're the size of the Mexican state of Chihuahua.
Right.
OK, that is based on a mental floss article, so that is a mental floss is very reliable,
so I don't know what I'm saying.
They are, yeah.
Yeah.
I believe that.
A chihuahua.
Yeah.
Oh, please.
OK.
Chihuahua's out that big.
They're bigger than that.
Yeah.
They're just destroying a really tiny dog that has some mouse dressed up as a chihuahua.
I just think it's amazing.
Yeah.
It's incredible.
It is very awesome.
Is it thought to be because it's so that it can get used to rejuvenating?
Is that right?
So that if it's, you know, flooded with lots of poisonous stuff, at least it's able
to like shrink and rebuild itself constantly.
It is like, basically, a bit of X-man, hasn't it?
Yeah.
Because it's really part of everyone's got this part of the body that's regenerating
all the time.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
So we're like part wolverine just in our liver.
Yeah.
And we mentioned before that--
Oh, wolverine is all liver.
Yes.
Wow.
That's good.
So we said before that if you chop your liver down to a quarter of the size, it will regenerate.
Within a few weeks.
Yeah.
It's full size.
And I think you said that if you put a chihuahua's liver into a great day, and it will grow
to the size of a great day's liver.
Yes.
Is what?
Mad.
So you can donate half of your liver to somebody.
Yeah.
And they within a few weeks will have a full liver.
And so will you.
So we only need one liver for the whole human race, really.
Yes.
It's like that Greek myth where they share one eye.
But if you left a bit of eye behind in the socket and then the eye just multiplied.
Halon doesn't Prometheus when he's chained to the mountain in the myth, gets his liver torn
out by a bird every day and then it grows back.
I think they did know about--
Oh.
So they must have known--
Hang on.
They can't have known.
How would they know?
How could they know?
Prometheus gets his liver torn out every day and then the next day it's grown back and
the bird tears it out again and that's his punishment.
Yeah, yeah.
How did they know?
That they must have known.
I don't think they did.
You think it's a coincidence?
I think it's a coincidence.
I'm calling it.
So did you know that Tim Cook, who's the current CEO of Apple, wanted to donate his liver
or 50% of it to Steve Jobs when he needed a liver donation.
And Tim Cook said that he's only been shouted out by Steve Jobs three or four times in their
entire career.
And they worked very closely for many, many years.
And one of the times was that when he knocked on his door and said, can I give you some of
my liver?
And Steve Jobs said, no, don't be an idiot.
You shouldn't have to do that for me.
But he shouted at him.
Yeah, apparently you got angry because I think Tim Cook was really insistent and said, I
wanted to donate.
Was it in his hand?
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
You were dripping it on my floor, get out of here.
What is this?
Chop liver?
So Steve Jobs actually had a liver transplant in 2008, or he had a liver transplant
in the 2000s.
And the doctor who transplanted his liver later bought his house, which is quite nice.
I went onto the old QI forums where we do our research for TV show and found a discussion
between me and Andy about whether we could eat human livers and not die, because there's
an old fact that if you eat a polar bear's liver, you'll die because it's got so much
vitamin A in it.
And so we worked out how much vitamin A there was per gram in a human liver, which is
575 international units, and then how heavy a liver was.
And then what the maximum single intake dose for vitamin A was in a human.
And we worked out that if you ate one and a third raw livers in a single sitting, you would
probably die of vitamin A poisoning.
It might be a bit different if you cooked it, but not too different.
So if Hannibal Lecter, for instance, had two human livers in one sitting, he would die
of vitamin A poisoning.
But that's why they never show that scene in the film, because they knew it would be
unrealistic.
Show me eating two livers.
Yeah.
Well, the other thing that would be realistic in the film is if you eat too much vitamin A,
your body stops being able to star it and you turn orange.
So the police should have been able to find them by just looking for an orange person.
Wow.
Did you know that you can grow a baby in a liver.
Like human baby?
Four babies have been born, not out of a womb, but out of a liver.
Deliberately or ectopically, right?
Well, nearly.
So normally, egg gets fertilised, moves down into womb.
Sometimes egg gets stuck in fallopian tube, problem, it's called nectopic pregnancy.
Sometimes, one in 100,000 times, the egg just falls out of the fallopian tube and it wanders
off through the body.
In the very rare cases where the fertilised egg lands in the abdomen in the liver, it's
got a massive blood supply there.
The only thing it lacks is the muscular wall of the womb.
So it's not as well protected, but no placenta though.
So how do they...
It grows.
Because food comes through it, this is incredible.
I know.
Because it does so much.
The liver does like 500 jobs, isn't it?
It does 500 jobs.
It's like the jaw jaws bomb of the human body, isn't it?
And so the last time was in 2003 in South Africa, doctors literally went into a woman's
liver and pulled out a healthy baby.
What?
That is one of the best facts I've ever heard.
That's incredible.
The question for the baby as well, half of its day, it's flat, gets 50% bigger.
Okay, that is it, that is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over
the course of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on at Shriberland, James.
At H-shaped.
Andy.
At Andrew Hunter M.
And Shazinski.
You can email podcast@cui.com.
Yep.
And join us every Monday on our Facebook page for a Facebook Live 5pm, that's London time.
And we'll be there discussing the previous episode that has been played out that week and
other things.
You can also go to our website.
No such thing as a fish.com.
We have links to our tour in October and November.
We also have a link to the book that we're releasing in November as well.
And we have all of our previous episodes up there.
So please go there.
And we'll see you guys again next week.
Goodbye.
(upbeat music)